# <a id=""></a> Memorial Implementation Notes

## Table of contents

- [CLI application](#cli) 
	- [Configuration](#cli+configuration) 
- [Core](#core) 
	- [Collector](#core+collector) 
	- [Model](#core+model) 
		- [Attributes](#core+model+attributes) 
	- [Renderer](#core+renderer) 
		- [Markdown](#core+renderer+markdown) 

## <a id="cli"></a> CLI application

> The application is primarily designed to be run in non-interactive mode (e.g. as a pre-commit
> hook or during CI). Because of that reason and to emphasize using VCS for anything important,
> most of the parameters are set in a configuration file. 

at [memorial-cli\src\cli\app.rs (line 32)](https://github.com/Kostassoid/memorial/blob/master/memorial-cli/src/cli/app.rs#L32)



> `scan` command is assumed implicitly to simplify the interaction. 

at [memorial-cli\src\cli\app.rs (line 45)](https://github.com/Kostassoid/memorial/blob/master/memorial-cli/src/cli/app.rs#L45)



### <a id="cli+configuration"></a> Configuration

> Even though the overall design and the config model allow for using multiple renderers, this
> feels like a rabbit hole of over-generalization.
> So the idea is to keep Markdown as the one and only renderer until the rest of the project is
> mature enough and there's a clear(er) vision of the roadmap. 

at [memorial-cli\src\cli\app.rs (line 93)](https://github.com/Kostassoid/memorial/blob/master/memorial-cli/src/cli/app.rs#L93)



## <a id="core"></a> Core

### <a id="core+collector"></a> Collector

> Ignoring parsing errors on collected quotes on (1,1) position to reduce false warnings. 

at [memorial-core\src\collector\collector.rs (line 68)](https://github.com/Kostassoid/memorial/blob/master/memorial-core/src/collector/collector.rs#L68)



### <a id="core+model"></a> Model

#### <a id="core+model+attributes"></a> Attributes

> Attributes are either attached to the node or control the collection process. 

at [memorial-core\src\model\attributes.rs (line 1)](https://github.com/Kostassoid/memorial/blob/master/memorial-core/src/model/attributes.rs#L1)



> Some attributes are used internally to enrich collected knowledge tree with some valuable context,
> like the timestamp of document generation. These attributes are not supposed to be used by end users
> directly. As a convention, these internal attributes are prefixed with "!", although this is not
> enforced through the parser currently. 

at [memorial-core\src\model\attributes.rs (line 7)](https://github.com/Kostassoid/memorial/blob/master/memorial-core/src/model/attributes.rs#L7)



### <a id="core+renderer"></a> Renderer

#### <a id="core+renderer+markdown"></a> Markdown

> One possible future improvement is allowing to render the collected notes into multiple files.
> This can be user-controlled by using attributes. Hence that's how output file path is
> passed to the renderer. But, for now, only a value from the root node is used. 

at [memorial-core\src\renderer\markdown.rs (line 28)](https://github.com/Kostassoid/memorial/blob/master/memorial-core/src/renderer/markdown.rs#L28)



> The renderer is currently implemented using low level string builders. This seemed like a good idea
> during the initial development phase as integrating with template engine libraries would require
> preparing the data in a certain way, which, depending on the engine implementation could limit the
> features exposed from the `Renderer`. 

at [memorial-core\src\renderer\markdown.rs (line 41)](https://github.com/Kostassoid/memorial/blob/master/memorial-core/src/renderer/markdown.rs#L41)




---
<sub>Generated by [Memorial](https://github.com/Kostassoid/memorial) v0.1.0 at _2023-04-03 21:58:06_.</sub>